README.md, before:

# Web Project Generator

A tool for creating simple websites quickly from [People and Code](https://people-and-code.com/).

## Set up the project generator

To run the generator, clone it.

Open a terminal window in the `web-project-generator` directory and run `npm link`.

This will give you global access to the web project generator.

## Generate a new web project

Open a terminal and navigate to where you want to locate your project.

Type `create-web-project` and follow the instructions. There are 3 types of site available:

- Web basic
  - eslint
  - prettier
  - stylelint
  - parcel
- Web article
  - as basic plus a three column page layout in css
- People & Code website
  - as basic plus robots.txt file, a sitemap and css

You will most likely want to select "Web basic".  
The generator will take you through a series of straightforward questions before creating the new web site.

```bash
Initialising git repository...
Gathering project files...
Installing dependencies...
```

Once the project has been built, you will be prompted to run commands to enter the project and run the linters.

If you have set this up, you can open your new project in VS Code using the `code .` shortcut.

---

## Saving your new project in GitHub

[Adding locally hosted code to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/migrations/importing-source-code/using-the-command-line-to-import-source-code/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github)

Follow the instructions (copy and paste code suggested in GitHub).

Commit message:

update readme to add next option

README.md, after:

# Web Project Generator

A tool for creating simple websites quickly from [People and Code](https://people-and-code.com/).

## Set up the project generator

To run the generator, clone it.

Open a terminal window in the `web-project-generator` directory and run `npm link`.

This will give you global access to the web project generator.

## Generate a new web project

Open a terminal and navigate to where you want to locate your project.

Type `create-web-project` and follow the instructions. There are 4 types of site available:

- Web basic
  - eslint
  - prettier
  - stylelint
  - parcel
- Web next
  - as basic plus Next.js for server-side rendering
- Web article
  - as basic plus a three column page layout in css
- People & Code website
  - as basic plus robots.txt file, a sitemap and css

You will most likely want to select "Web basic".  
The generator will take you through a series of straightforward questions before creating the new web site.

```bash
Initialising git repository...
Gathering project files...
Installing dependencies...
```

Once the project has been built, you will be prompted to run commands to enter the project and run the linters.

If you have set this up, you can open your new project in VS Code using the `code .` shortcut.

---

## Saving your new project in GitHub

[Adding locally hosted code to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/migrations/importing-source-code/using-the-command-line-to-import-source-code/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github)

Follow the instructions (copy and paste code suggested in GitHub).
